.Dd February 3, 1993
.Dt TCLMIDI 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm tclmidi
.Nd "a TCL based interpreter for manipulating MIDI files"
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
is an extension of John Ousterhout's TCL language.
The extension commands are designed to facilitate the
creation and modification of \%MIDI files.
.Nm
is based on an earlier program called
.Nm tclm ,
but provides many improvements.
Among these are
.Bl -item -offset indent
.It
absolute time indexing.
Events
may now be inserted and removed from any place in
the \%MIDI song.
.It
a note concept.
NoteOn and NoteOff events may now
be handled together as a single Note event.
.It
an underlying object oriented design.
.Nm
is just a wrapper around a powerful C++ library
called
.Nm libmidi++.a .
.It
a song structure based on a red/black tree.
This allows access to events in a reasonable time
frame regardless of the song size.
Sequential access is also quick due to the leaves
of the tree being a double-linked list.
.El
In addition to the normal TCL commands, the following
are also available.
.Bl -tag -offset indent -width midiconfig
.It midiconfig
get or modify the configuration values of a \%MIDI song
.It mididevice
get or modify the configuration values of a \%MIDI device
.It midifree
free the space used by a \%MIDI song
.It midiget
get one event from a \%MIDI song
.It midimake
create an empty \%MIDI song
.It midimerge
merge multiple tracks of \%MIDI songs to one track
.It midiplay
play a \%MIDI song
.It midiput
insert an event in a \%MIDI song
.It midiread
read a \%MIDI song from a Standard \%MIDI File
.It midirecord
record a \%MIDI song
.It midirewind
reset a \%MIDI song pointer to the beginning
.It midisplit
split a track into a meta track and an other event track
.It midistop
stop playing or recording a \%MIDI song
.It miditrack
get information about a track in a \%MIDI song
.It midiwait
block until a \%MIDI song finishes playing
.It midiwrite
write a \%MIDI song as a Standard \%MIDI File
.It midiversion
report the
.Xr tclmidi 1
version number
.El
.Pp
The commands,
.Xr mididevice n ,
.Xr midiplay n ,
.Xr midirecord n ,
.Xr midistop n ,
and
.Xr midiwait n
are only supported for certain \%MIDI drivers.
Currently this is limited to the MPU-401 UART driver
for the following operating systems:
.Bl -item -offset indent -compact
.It
BSD/386
.It
Linux
.It
NetBSD
.It
SVR4
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr midiconfig n ,
.Xr mididevice n ,
.Xr midifree n ,
.Xr midiget n ,
.Xr midimake n ,
.Xr midimerge n ,
.Xr midiplay n ,
.Xr midiput n ,
.Xr midiread n ,
.Xr midirecord n ,
.Xr midirewind n ,
.Xr midisplit n ,
.Xr midistop n ,
.Xr miditrack n ,
.Xr midiwait n ,
.Xr midiwrite n ,
.Xr midiversion n ,
.Xr midievents n ,
.Xr minfo 1 ,
.Xr mplay 1 ,
.Xr mrecord 1 ,
.Xr midtotcl 1
.Sh AUTHORS
Mike Durian - durian@boogie.com
